# task-6
In this task few passwords were created and their strength was checked using a online password strength checking tool, Passwordmeter. The password strengths were determined and required suggestions to make them strong are recommended.
First 8 passwords were created and saved in a text file. These passwords were copied and pasted in the passwordmeter one by one to check their strength and their probability of being cracked.
Passwordmeter gives the result as percentage of the strngth along with the improvments required. The result can indicate as colour code ranging from weak, very weak, strong etc.
The results were analyzed and are saved as a screenshot. For example, the fourth password- R#2002 has score of 53%, which means it is in an average strength. The suggestions given are Using more characters, using different case letters, using more special characters and symbols. They also gave what are the characters that made resulted in the reduced strength of the password. In the results showed that there are repetition of one character may times, using consecutive or fancy numbers or characters, too many numbers and less number of other characters and letters etc.
After observing and analyzing all the results obtained from all the passwords, few guidelines to protect the passwords can be suggested. The guidelines are: Usage of different letter cases, usage of more number of different characters without repetition, usage of of long passwords, do not share the passwords even with your close ones, never save your passwords in the systems, use more number of special characeters and never save your passwords in the google, do not put your nick name or pet name or date of birth or any favourite names or numbers as your password as they are easy to guess.
The different types of password attacks are Brute force attacks(where the attacker uses different possible combinations of a most suspected password), dictionary attacks(the attackers here use most common words or your favourites etc to crack open your password), Phishing attack (here, the attacker tricks the users in revealing the passwords by using phishing links or e-mails), Credential stuffing (here the attackers uses the data taken from any official data base to know the passwords), hash attacks (here the attacker gets the details of the hashes where the passwords are stored and then from here he /she might use brute force or dictionary attacks), MIM or Man In Middle attacks( here the attacker intecepts the communication between two sources sharing the password and steal the credentials to misuse them). As the technology is advancing various security systems are coming into action, but at the same time the attackers are also advancing the same way, so along with the above given precautions to save your passwords from being cracked, it would be better for the websites to have a double authentication system, which asks for an OTP even after entering the passwords. Though this maynot be a 100% solution for the problem, yet I believe this would reduce the percentage of the problem significantly.
Thus, the passwords were created and their strengths were checked. Few guidelines were also prescribed to overcome the password cracking attacks.
